2	–LC • 1 º DIA • CADERNO 1 • AZUL –
LINGUAGENS, CÓDIGOS E SUAS TECNOLOGIAS
Questões de 01 a 45
Questões de 01 a 05 (opção inglês)
QUESTÃO 01
The average american tosses 300 pounds of food
each year, making food the number one contributor to
America’s landfills. Eat your leftovers and keep your
perishables in the fridge – the Earth is counting on it.
Disponível em: https://mir-s3-cdn-cf.behance.net. Acesso em: 29 out. 2021 (adaptado).
Esse cartaz de campanha sugere que
A	A os lixões precisam de ampliação.
B	B o desperdício degrada o ambiente.
C	C os mercados doam alimentos perecíveis.
D	D a desnutrição compromete o raciocínio.
E	E as residências carecem de refrigeradores.
QUESTÃO 02
No man is an island,
Entire of itself;
Every man is a piece of the continent,
A part of the main.
[...]
Any man’s death diminishes me,
Because I am involved in mankind.
DONNE, J. The Works of John Donne. Londres: John W. Parker, 1839 (fragmento).
Nesse poema, a expressão “No man is an island ” ressalta o(a)
A	A medo da morte.
B	B ideia de conexão.
C	C conceito de solidão.
D	D risco de devastação.
E	E necessidade de empatia.
QUESTÃO 03
Things We Carry on the Sea
We carry tears in our eyes: good-bye father, good-bye
[mother
We carry soil in small bags: may home never fade in our
[hearts
We carry carnage of mining, droughts, floods, genocides
We carry dust of our families and neighbors incinerated
[in mushroom clouds
We carry our islands sinking under the sea
We carry our hands, feet, bones, hearts and best minds
[for a new life
We carry diplomas: medicine, engineer, nurse,
[education, math, poetry, even if they mean
[nothing to the other shore
We carry railroads, plantations, laundromats,
[bodegas, taco trucks, farms, factories, nursing
[homes, hospitals, schools, temples... built on
[our ancestors’ backs
We carry old homes along the spine, new dreams in our
[chests
We carry yesterday, today and tomorrow
We’re orphans of the wars forced upon us
We’re refugees of the sea rising from industrial wastes
And we carry our mother tongues
[...]
As we drift... in our rubber boats... from shore... to shore...
[to shore...
PING, W. Disponível em: https://poets.org. Acesso em: 1 jun. 2023 (fragmento).
Ao retratar a trajetória de refugiados, o poema recorre à
imagem de viagem marítima para destacar o(a)
A	A risco de choques culturais.
B	B impacto do ensino de história.
C	C importância da luta ambiental.
D	D existência de experiências plurais.
E	E necessidade de capacitação profissional.
*010175AZ2*